# IBPL
In this paper, we consider a class of multiblock nonconvex nonsmooth optimization problems, which covers many applications such as the analysis of pre-earthquake anomalies and machine learning. To solve this class of problems, we propose the inertial block proximal linearized method with adaptive momentum ($IBPL^+$). 
Compared to the current methods, our method possesses three main advantages: 
(1) it introduces an adaptive momentum strategy to update the extrapolation parameters, 
(2) it allows using two different extrapolation points to accelerate the convergence, 
(3) it allows the extrapolation parameters of these two extrapolation points to be independent of and unconstrained by all other parameters.    While maintaining the above advantages, we prove that our method ensures the monotonic convergence of the objective function of this class of problems, and we also prove the global convergence of the sequence generated by our method to a critical point, as well as establish the convergence rate of our method.  To demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, we apply it to solve two nonconvex and nonsmooth machine learning problems, namely sparse nonnegative matrix factorization with $\ell_0$-constraints and sparse nonnegative CP decomposition with $\ell_0$-constraints. The numerical experimental results on solving these problems show that our method outperforms several state-of-the-art algorithms. 

This package contains code for the sparse non-negative matrix factorization with $\ell_0$-constraints ($\ell_0$-SNMF) problem and the sparse non-negative CP tensor decomposition with $\ell_0$-constraints ($\ell_0$-SNCP) problem in our paper[<sup>1</sup>](#refer-id). 

## Matlab code
"L0SNMF" is the sparse non-negative matrix factorization with $\ell_0$-constraints ($\ell_0$-SNMF) function, and "L0SNCP" is the sparse non-negative CP tensor decomposition with $\ell_0$-constraints ($\ell_0$-SNCP) function. 

## How to run our code
A toy example explains how to use the these function. For "L0SNMF", just run the function '[main_Run_me.m](L0SNMF/main_Run_me.m)'. 

For "L0SNCP", before running it, first add the toolbox 'tensortoolbox'[<sup>2</sup>](#refer-id) (www.tensortoolbox.org) to the running path of matlab, and then run the function '[main_Run_me.m](L0SNCP/main_Run_me.m)'. 

## Data
This code has built-in the data mentioned in our paper[<sup>1</sup>](#refer-id). 

## Reference
<div id="refer-id"></div>
[1] An Inertial Block Proximal Linearized  Method with Adaptive Momentum for Nonconvex and Nonsmooth Optimization. 

[2] Brett W. Bader and Tamara G. Kolda. 2006. Algorithm 862: MATLAB tensor classes for fast algorithm prototyping. ACM Trans. Math. Softw. 32, 4 (December 2006), 635–653. https://doi.org/10.1145/1186785.1186794
